# Introduction to Machine Learning

In this lesson, the goal was to give a high-level introduction to the field of machine learning, including the broader context in which this branch of computer science exists.
It was a shorter lesson, and with lots of examples. It also had the first hands on the lab, where we could interact with the azure environment

## Main topics:

- Machine learning is a data science technique used to extract patterns from data, allowing computers to identify related data, and forecast future outcomes, behaviors, and trends;
- The historical context of machine learning (https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/2016/07/29/whats-difference-artificial-intelligence-machine-learning-deep-learning-ai/)
- The data science process: collect and prepare data, train the model, evaluate the model, deploy the model and constantly retrain the model
- The types of data: numerical, categorical, time-series, text and image. Keeping in mind that it is all numbers in the end
- The two main perspectives in ML: the statistical perspective (trying to find a mathematical function that, given the values of the independent variables can predict the values of the dependent variables) and the computer science perspective (using input features to create a program that can generate the desired output)
- The tools for machine learning: libraries, development environments and cloud services
- The basics of Azure ML
- The distinction between models and algorithms
- The basics of a linear regression model
- The distinction between parametric vs. non-parametric functions
- The distinction between classical machine learning vs. deep learning
- The main approaches to machine learning
- The trade-offs that come up when making decisions about how to design and training machine learning models

## Notes:

From these topics, these were the main notes I took:

****Models**** are the specific representations learned from data

****Algorithms**** are the processes of learning

We might call each ****row**** an entity, an observation or an instance

We might refer to each ****column**** as a feature or attribute]

****Irreducible error****  is different from the ****model error****. Irreducible error is caused by the data collection process—such as when we don't have enough data or don't have enough data features. In contrast, the model error measures how much the prediction made by the model is different from the true output

****Bias**** measures how inaccurate the model prediction is in comparison with the true output. It is due to *erroneous assumptions* made in the machine learning process to simplify the model and make the target function easier to learn. High model complexity tends to have a low bias.

****Variance**** measures how much the target function will change if different training data is used. Variance can be caused by modeling the random noise in the training data. High model complexity tends to have a high variance.

As a general trend, parametric and linear algorithms often have high bias and low variance, whereas non-parametric and non-linear algorithms often have low bias and high variance
