# Responsible AI

In this was covered the potential implications and difficult challenges posed by Machine Learning.


## Main topics:

- The core principles of responsible AI and how Microsoft aligns its AI strategy according to them 
- Model transparency and explainability, with an exploration of model explanations using Azure Machine Learning Studio.
- Modern-day challenges posed by AI and Machine Learning.

## Notes:

- Challenges and Principles:
skilled labour deficit; unintentional bias; adversarial attacks; deep fakes; intentional data poisonings; the butterfly effect. It can be addressed by model explainability and fairness

- Microsoft AI principles (PARFIT):
fairness; reliability and safety; privacy and security; inclusiveness; transparency; accountability

- Direct explainers X meta explainers:
Direct: use when you know the specific tools tha will be used. E.g: SHAP Tree Explainer and SHAP Deep Explainer (these are model (algorithm) specific); Mimic Explainer and SHAP Kernel Explainer (these are model agnostic explainers)

- Meta explainers: automacticly chooses the direct explainer (by model and dataset) to explain it. E.g:Tabular, Text or Image explainers.

- Machine learning interpretability is important in two phases of machine learning development cycle:

  - During training: Model designers and evaluators require interpretability tools to explain the output of a model to stakeholders to build trust. They also need insights into the model so that they can debug the model and make decisions on whether the behavior matches their objectives. Finally, they need to ensure that the model is not biased.

  - During inferencing: Predictions need to be explainable to the people who use your model. For example, why did the model deny a mortgage loan, or predict that an investment portfolio carries a higher risk?

### Model Fairness:
https://fairlearn.github.io/ | 
https://github.com/fairlearn/fairlearn

### Course Conclusion

- Machine Learning is already having a significant impact on almost every aspect of our daily lives, and promises to help advance critically important fields like medicine, transportation, space travel, agriculture, cybersecurity etc
- The trends in computing power availability, moving closer to silicon, public cloud HW resource concentration will continue to accelerate in the next decade, and other medium or long-term scientific breakthroughs (think quantum computing) have the potential of creating even larger ML advancements
- Better understanding of current algorithms, inventing new ones, focusing on transparency and explainability will be also major trends
